# Introduction 
This Python program is used to extract the sample docx file "CareerOverviewCandidateJohnDoe.docx" into a JSON document called "CareerOverviewCandidateJohnDoe.json". The program can also process other docx file as long as the file has the exact sections
as the sample file. The program takes the input file's path as an argument and generate the json document in the same directory.


# Getting Started
## Environment Setup
We'll be using Python 3 to run the program.
Please install the latest version of python-docx package prior to run this program. Use the following command.
```
pip3 install --user python-docx
```

## Example
The command to run the program is formatted as follow:

python3 content_extract.py inputfile

Where the inputfile is the path of the docx file you are going to process content extration.
For example, if the input file is CareerOverviewCandidateJohnDoe.docx in the same directory, the command will be:

python3 content_extract.py CareerOverviewCandidateJohnDoe.docxs

After running sucessfully, a json document with the same name as the inputfile will be generated under the same directory.
In this case, it will be called CareerOverviewCandidateJohnDoe.json

## Testing
There is limited testing in this program. A simple print function is performed to check if the json document is construced logically as expcted. For furture extension of this program, it's highly recommanded to add a series of unit tests.

# Result
## Sample Output
Here is the formatted version of the json document generated by the sample file CareerOverviewCandidateJohnDoe.docx
{
    "General Summary": "John Doe finished college a few years ago where he studied Physics. He shows constant improvement from his high school days, all the way up to having his first industry experience as an analyst.",
    "Decision": "We advise that you hire John Doe for his drive to keep improving, and his passion for leadership.",
    "Chapter Summaries": {
        "High School": {
            "Summary": "Graduated with a 3.4 GPA; Played varsity sports; Excelled in Science",
            "Rating": "8"
        },
        "College": {
            "Summary": "Graduated with a 3.6 GPA; Studied Physics; Was involved in community service projects",
            "Rating": "9"
        },
        "Analyst at TestCorp": {
            "Summary": "Customer centric; Started mentoring more junior members after just 2 years; Highly dependable and strategic",
            "Rating": "10"
        }
    }
}

## Discussion
The program firstly check the inputfile's extension (e.g. docx) and also check if the file exists. If either of these condisions fails, the program will terminate and return an error message in shell. 

The general approach to this problem is summarized as follows:
1. import docx and create Document object for the input docx file
2. extract the paragraphs from the Document and partition the General Summary and  Dicision sections
3. extract the table from the Document and store in a list, then loop through the list to extract key: value pair for each chapter verses its information in a logical way
4. assmeble the data from the three sections and store them in json format
5. create the output json file

For future improvement, there are a lots of features can be added to the program.
The program can evolve to a conprehensive resume content extractor for people who apply for jobs. 
In a more complex form such as an online job applicatoin, the program can turn all the information filled by user and generate a dictionary to store the information in key value pairs. For the education and experience sections, the program can use similar method as it does in the Chapter Summaries that to store each experience as key value pair. 
Also, the program can be extended to process content extraction for a folder with multiple docx files. Basically, the program just loop through every single docx file in a folder. Moreover, the program can also output a list of Decision that to hire the candidate or not. It can also calculate the average Rating among all the chapters. 
Even more, we can carete a UI for this program and the json data can displace in a nice way and assign collor for high Rating chapter.
There are infinite possibilities to improve this program or make it to work with other program. There could be something to do with NLP as well. 